welcome to module one lesson 8 ad group
review this is the third step of the
eight part Google ads audit checklist
let's open up our audit checklist
template and jump right into it okay so
we're back in the audit checklist
template and we're in the ad group
review section so this one is pretty
straightforward we're going to walk
through it together first and foremost
are your ad groups broken out logically
uh into themes so let me show you what
that looks like here in a
sec so you're going to go into your
campaigns and let's just jump into one
of these campaigns here this is actually
a really easy one they only have one ad
group uh but essentially they have a
campaign or an ad group here around data
mapping if I go into it they have
keywords around data mapping so data
mapping software tools automation data
Discovery uh they've got a quite a few
different ones here but really what I'm
getting at is like based on the ad group
name are the keywords underneath it
grouped thematically so we're talking
about data maing ideally I should see
keywords in here that talk about data
mapping if you don't do a good job at
this it's going to hurt your quality
score because if you have too many
keywords in your ad group it's hard to
make sure that the ads are relevant to
the keywords so you can see your data
mapping software has a quality score of
three of 10 and an ad relevance of above
average which is amazing but then if we
look at a keyword like data Discovery
tools it's got a quality score of two
out of 10 and then the uh the ad
relevance is not as strong it's average
so doesn't mean that you can't put
similar keywords together in the same
group but it just gets harder because in
your responsive search ad you're going
to want to make sure that you put those
keywords in your headlines or
descriptions where possible so this is
an opportunity to improve the ad
relevance but uh just looking through
here they do have it broken into themes
which is good and uh I'm going to go
ahead and just mark this Mark this step
complete
but I will make a note here that um some
keywords have low quality score can be
more relevant to the ads just a note to
myself I'm going to mark this
complete next do you have less than 15
keywords per ad group this is not a set
in stone law like if you have 16
keywords Brad group you're not going to
find success if you have 20 keywords
Brad group you're not find success vice
versa if you only have three ad groups
or three keywords you won't find success
this is just to help you mitigate
hurting your ad relevance at the end of
the day you know you did a good job with
your ad groups and how you structured
your keywords if you see that your ad
relevance is above average that's it if
you have above average ad relevance you
did a good job with your group structure
and you have keywords that are related
to your ads and then at that point you
want to make sure that the landing page
that they're going to is also relevant
so that you don't have a landing page
experience problem like they do where
they have below average landing page
experience for a lot of their keywords
and we're going to dive more into
quality score later in this audit so in
this case they're good here so I'm going
to mark this
complete and an easy way to tell is you
can just filter by
enabled go like this and you can see
they only have five so we're good
there uh next up are your ad groups
filled with relevant keywords ads and
landing pages we kind of spoked about
this so in this case uh they've got
these keywords are there ads relevant to
this so you can go to the ads Tab and
just take a look and see are the ads
congruent with the keywords and then
finally the landing page so I'm just
going to show you an example here on uh
Google so if I was like auditing Zoho
for example you know this is their ad
here on Zoho serum software and they're
bidding on the keyword serum software
and if I click on their ad it takes me
to this landing page uh which toxic
exactly about serum software which is
amazing so this is a great job of
message match where the ad keyword and
landing page are all in alignment uh
which is amazing so I'll drop this
example in your workbook you can see
this is actually a really strong landing
page and it talks about how everything
they do is around CRM and how CRM can
help you and how they uh distinguish
themselves before against their
competitors and there's a lot of good
things to learn from here but we're good
there so we can move
on and then last but not least is are
your best ad groups receiving enough
budget so sometimes you have certain ad
groups that they don't get enough spend
this is really difficult the way you can
know uh I wish I had a better example
let me see if another one of their
campaigns has more ad groups no it looks
like this this is a new client uh that
we just brought on we're doing an audit
for so it looks like most of their ad
groups just have one or what campaigns
have one ad group um which is an
opportunity they could add more ad
groups they're not covering as many
keywords as they could be but
essentially you're going to go into your
ad group section and then you can sort
by conversions and cost and then you can
see if there's certain ad groups that
have decent search volume but just don't
have enough conversions or clicks
because other ones with more search
volume are just cannibalizing and eating
up all of the budget so in that case if
it's really worthwhile you can take that
ad group and you can put it into its own
campaign or what you can do is you can
run Target CPA bidding and then you can
set a different Target CPA cap at the
different ad groups levels so you can
put less a more restrictive cap on the
one that's uh eating up all the bud all
the budget and then put up a larger one
on the one that hasn't spent enough or
you can just pause the one that's eating
all all the budget and turn on the one
that hasn't spent enough yet so you can
do different things to kind of massage
it if you will but it's just something
to be mindful of so in this case they
only have one ad group per campaign so I
don't have to worry about this and we'll
mark Mark that as complete so that is it
for this lesson we went through the ad
group review your action item for this
lesson is to go through the ad group
review and see for yourself what the
current state is with your account I
hope you received a ton of value so far
please share ad conversion with your
colleagues or leave us testimonial we
appreciate your help spreading the word
I'll see you in the next one
[Music]